The topics discussed are in no particular order, nor is this a complete set of
topics. This is mostly brainstorming and suggestion, most of it is subject to
change as the development and fleshing out of mechanics continues.

--------------------
Party Mechanics

 - When starting a new game the player creates/chooses 4-6 characters to form
   their core (permanent) party
   - Optionally allow the player to use as few as 1 character

 - Optionally, have recruitable characters the player can use to augment their
   core party
   - There should be limits on overall party size (6-8?) and possibly on the
     number of recruited characters in the party at any given time.

   - Consider having the option of player interaction with these characters
     throughout the game (character backstory and plot development)

   - Consider having incompatibilities between some recruitable characters and
     other characters or player decisions. (Player's choices impact options)

   - Consider making these characters slightly limited and/or unique (in 
     abilities, skills, etc.) relative to the player's core party characters.

   - Alternatively, these characters could act as semi-expendable hirelings
     - Virtually no individual character depth
     - Replaceable upon death (within some reasonable upper bound)
     - Possibly have a fairly low cost of replacement
     - Can still restrict, or provide additional benefits based on player 
      decisions


 - Optionally, have secondary game mode where the player can replace their core
   party members in a more free form setting, separate from the storyline.


--------------------
Agents (Conceptual)

Agents are generally interactive elements on the environments they are in.
Ranging from boulders, bushes and trees to chests, doors and walls are Inactive
Agents. Player characters, allies and enemies, along with all other Agents 
capable of independent action are Active Agents.

On the Combat Map, most Agents occupy a single tile and generally only one
Agent may be present in any given tile at a time. Some (probably most) Agents
act as barriers to movement. There are however some exceptions:
 - Some especially large agents may span multiple tiles, such as logs or large
   creatures.
 - Consider allowing some agents to occupy the same tile (or tiles) together,
   ex. A small creature within a bush, or multiple smaller creatures/Agents
   in one tile.

Some (generally Inactive) Agents have interactive options. Generally most
interactions are available to player characters, however not all interactions
are available to all Agents.
 - Mechanical operations such as using a key to open a lock (or even opening a
   door) aren't available to Agents that lack the capacity to complete the
   operation
 - Interactions requiring considerable strength, magic, or a specific ability
   are not available to Agents that don't meet these requirements.

Active Agents are generally capable of taking several different actions. In
addition to being able to interact with adjacent Agents, most Active Agents
are able to move, turn, attack other Agents and use any skills, spells or
special items that are available to them.

Some Agents may be affected by various Effects, as a result of an ability or
item, or some other cause. Effects can be beneficial or punitive and come in
several different forms:
 - Some Effects inflict or heal damage
 - Effects can positively or negatively affect an Agent's attributes
 - A few Effects can cause additional Effects
 - Some Effects only have an effect when other actions occur



--------------------
Vital Statistics (Might want another name for these)

 - Health/Hit Points/Life (etc.)
   The primary Vital Stat of all Active Agents is Health. The more an Agent
   has, the more damage it can take before dying (or suffering other negative
   effects). While maximizing the maximum Health of a character is not
   particularly important for many roles, every character should be very
   concerned about letting their current Health drop too low.


 - Mana/Spell Points/Arcane Power (etc.)
   Used for almost all magic abilities, Mana is of great importance to any
   Agent that casts spells. Having more Mana allows an agent to channel or cast
   more powerful spells more often before needing to restore their Mana through
   the use of items, Mana Flows or Mana Springs.

 - Stamina/Energy (Optional)
   Instead of, or in addition to cooldown timers on ability use, Stamina is a
   representation of capacity for (extreme) physical (and mental) exertion.
   Having more Stamina allows an Agent to use more powerful abilities more
   often before needing to rest or use items or spells to restore their
   Stamina.
   - Unlike Mana, Stamina regenerates naturally.
   - Consider temporarily slowing or stopping Stamina regeneration when certain
     abilities are used
   - Some spells use both Mana and Stamina
   - Ideally, standard Active Agent actions (moving, attacking, etc.) should
     not impact Stamina nor Stamina regeneration.

 - Magic Saturation (Optional)
   Casting spells "saturates" the caster. Under normal conditions, below an
   Agent's capacity, this has now effect. Exceeding capacity has undesirable
   effects upon an Agent, as they can no longer control the arcane energy that
   they are wielding. These effects include damage to the Agent, failed or
   backfired spells, and in extreme cases, death.
   - Saturation decreases when the caster does not cast spells
   - Agents with the appropriate abilities can increase the saturation
     generated by an active enemy spell caster.
   - Several options for implementation.

 - Action Points (AP)
   Agents are limited, even in the most basic actions, such as movement, by
   time. An Agent's AP determine how much it can do in a single turn of combat,
   and when an Agent runs out of AP, they are incapable of further actions.
   (with some possible exceptions)


The value ranges we use for each of these Vital Statistics and any factors that
change the current and maximum/capacity values for a given Agent will
ultimately be arbitrary, however the range of values we use should be
"reasonable" and "understandable".

By "reasonable" and "understandable" I mean not large for the sake of being
large. Ideally, with the exception of Health (and changes to current Health),
no values come close to exceeding 4 digit numbers. Larger values allow for more
variation, however exceedingly large values are less meaningful.

 - Health
   Here we have arguably the largest range of values to play with. Balancing
   aside, we have a couple important decisions to make:
   - How large the gap should be between characters at the start of the game
     and characters at the end of the game should be
   - The kind of value ranges we want for damage and healing (tight/wide/etc.)
   - The general area we want Health to top out at for Agents (of all kinds).

 - Mana
   With Mana, a lot will come down to how we handle spells, and the costs of
   spells, however some of the same decisions will need to be made here as will
   be made for Health:
   - The gap between characters at the start and end of the game.
   - The gap between lower and higher cost spells, with respect to Mana cost
   - The availability of higher cost spells to characters with no method of
     Mana recovery/regeneration at various stages of the game

   Most (or all) Agents do not naturally regenerate Mana, instead Agents must
   rely upon items, Mana Flows and Mana Springs to restore their Mana.
   - Some items may increase the maximum Mana of an Agent
   - Other items will restore the current Mana of an Agent, with some limits
     on use (Number of uses, amount of Mana restored, etc.)
   - Mana Flows and Springs are not all created equally.

   Ideally, spell casting Agents should not be tethered to Mana Springs to
   make a significant impact in Combat, however there should be limits to
   maintaining that impact over time.

 - Stamina
   Similar to Mana, the values we use come down to how we handle abilities and
   their costs.
   - The gap between characters at the start and end of the game shouldn't be
     particularly wide - with regards to both how much an Agent can do, and the
    time it takes to regenerate.
   - Ideally Stamina should be a restricting factor on ability use instead of
     cooldowns.
   - Stamina should generally not be a concern for Agents that are only casting
     spells.

   Unlike Mana, Stamina naturally regenerates over time.
   - Consider items and abilities that can restore some Stamina (limited)
   - Consider temporarily slowing or stopping Stamina regeneration when certain
     abilities are used

 - Magic Saturation (Saturation)
   While it would be rather redundant to tie Saturation directly to the Mana
   cost of spells, intuitively however, the values should at least be
   correlated. Similarly, Saturation capacity shouldn't necessarily scale
   alongside an Agent's maximum Mana, some Agents can safely wield far more
   arcane energy than they can store while others can store far more than they
   are able to use over a reasonable period of time.
   - Ideally, Player Characters in particular should only need to worry about
     exceeding their capacity should they decide to cast several powerful
     spells in quick succession, or if they are continuously casting for a
     fairly long period of time.
   - Similar to Stamina, Magic Saturation should be a restricting factor on
     spell use instead of cooldowns.

   Saturation gradually decreases over time while the Agent is not casting
   spells. This decay should be fast enough to allow the Agent to remain fairly
   active, but not so quick as to effectively invalidate the entire mechanic.
   - Neither decay, nor the build up of Saturation necessarily need to be
     constant, perhaps some sort of increase in the speed of both as they
     continue.

   Certain abilities should be capable of increasing the saturation generated
   by an active enemy spell caster, providing a method of slowing or stopping
   their casting or forcing them to exceed their Saturation capacity.

 - Action Points
   Player characters provide the standard for Action Points, other Agents may
   have different AP per turn and different costs for various actions, but the
   base values will be balanced around the player's Agents.
   - On average terrain, a player character should be able to move 4 tiles.
   - If no other actions are taken, a player character should be able to attack
     twice in a single turn (or take 2 equivalent cost actions).
   - There should be terrain (or support for terrain in the values we use) for
     terrain that a player character can move 3 tiles and 5 tiles per turn over
    
   A couple possible options:
   - Base AP per turn of 20
     Supports terrain that allows 1-6 moves per turn (costs between 3-20) and
     modifiers to adjust # possible move by changing movement costs.

   - Base AP per turn of 25
     Supports terrain that allows 1-6 moves per turn, slightly more potential
     variety than 20 AP.

   Optionally we could allow for some overflow of unused AP between turns,
   specifically about enough overflow for 1 additional move on average terrain.
   This could add a bit of additional depth to combat.



--------------------
Turns (in Combat)

The way we implement the turn sequence for combat has a huge impact on both the
feel and flow of the gameplay, and has implications for balancing. As such, our
final implementation should be carefully considered.

Some general options:
 - Agent-by-Agent Initiative
   Turns are agent specific, higher initiative go first with some tie-breaking
   done at the start used for the duration of the combat. Even if 2 or more of
   a single player's Agents tie the order of Agents acting is fixed, the first
   must act, and be finished acting, before the second begins its turn.
   - Players have no choice of which Agent to use at any given time
   - AI similarly looks at Agent actions in a fixed order of Agents acting.
   - Ex. Combat in the Heroes of Might & Magic series.

 - Player-by-Player
   Turns are player specific, alternating between players (in a fixed order).
   A player then has the option of ordering their Agents' actions for that turn
   as they see fit. An Agent may take an action, wait until other Agents have
   acted and then take another action (AP allowing).
   - Huge flexibility relative to Agent-by-Agent with regards to the order of
     actions taken.
   - Widely used in Turn-Based games (most? in some variation)

 - Player-by-Player Initiative
   Agent-by-Agent, except that in the event of a tie between Agents of a single
   player, the player uses all tied Agents similar to Player-by-Player instead
   of having a fixed order for the Agents to act in.

   Optionally, if one player has a series of Agents with different initiative
   values and no other player has Agents that would act between these turns,
   allow that player to use all of those Agents. In the event that all of one
   player's Agents have higher initiative than that of any other Agent in
   combat, the system operates like Player-by-Player.
   - More flexibility than Agent-by-Agent, but turns are generally not as
     overwhelming as Player-by-Player (chance to respond to some actions)
   - Maintains some depth of an Initiative system with depth from sequencing
     actions
   - Probably not widely used (if at all)

Optionally, we could implement all 3 options (and/or other alternatives) and
allow the player to choose between them at the start of a new game (or during).


With respect to Effects that act every turn (damage, healing, Mana restoration
from Springs/Flows, Stamina/Action Point recovery, decay of Magic Saturation,
etc.), these can be handled in a few different ways, possibly varying between
each thing:
 - Full Effect/change at the start of the affected Agent's turn
 - Full Effect/change at the end of the affected Agent's turn
 - Partial Effect/change at both the start and end of the affected Agent's turn
   - The parts sum to the full effect
   - Can control/balance the split on an Effect by Effect basis
   - Provides some time to respond to the Effect, but allows the Effect to
     still have some impact
   - Can implement both other options as special cases, and can optionally
     allow the player to decide between 3-4 cases (Coded partial, 100-0, 0-100,
     50-50 splits)



--------------------
Player Characters, Character Classes

A significant part of a given character's flavour comes (or should come) from
their class. While the implementation of a class system can be done in a number
of ways, there are a few principles that we should apply (as best as we can) to
the design of the game, gameplay:
 - With a couple possible exceptions per class, no single specific class should
   be required to access a particular part of the game (side quests, secret or
   hidden areas, locks, traps, etc.)
   ie. Every part of the game that is restricted to a subset of classes (if
   any) must have at least 2 classes with access to it.
   
 - Any combination of classes, and by extension, any class on its own, must be
   capable of completing the core storyline.
   ie. If a player want to use only spell casters, no spell casters, or
   anything inbetween, they should be able to complete the core game content,
   even using only a single class.
   This isn't to say that it should be a comparable experience to playing with
   a mix (or at least 2 or 3) of classes, infact, it should be significantly
   more difficult to play through the game, however it should not be
   impossible, as allowing a player to invest significant time in an impossible
   cause is arguably poor game design.
